# Creating Pods vs. Deployments in 1.18+

**Starting in version 1.18 (released March 2020), the `kubectl run` command only does one thing: create single pods.** There were many reasons for this, but the big ones were to reduce the complexity of how the `run` command worked and to move other resource creation to the `kubectl create` command. The idea is that `kubectl run` is now similar to `docker run`. It creates a single pod, where `docker run` creates a single container.

Now that everyone's finally using newer versions like 1.27+ I've replaced these videos. You can follow along on my course updates GitHub project: [bret.show/courseupdates](https://bret.show/courseupdates)

Depending on which version of Kubernetes you have installed, you'll need to decide how you'll create objects. Here's a cheat sheet for how old commands should be used with the 1.18+ changes.

**The bold parts are what has changed since 1.18.**

## Create a single pod in 1.18+

`kubectl run nginx --image nginx`

## Create a single pod with a custom command in 1.18+

`kubectl run pingpong --image alpine --command -- ping 1.1.1.1`

## Create a deployment in 1.18+

`kubectl create deployment nginx --image nginx`

## Create a deployment with a custom command in 1.18+

`kubectl create deployment pingpong --image alpine -- ping 1.1.1.1`

Notice the double dash `--` which separates the kubectl command options from the COMMAND you want to override when starting the containers.

Also notice that `run` requires the `--command -- <cmd> <arg>` while the `create deployment` just needs `-- <cmd> <arg>` at the end.

For more info on the create deployment options, check out the help at `kubectl create deployment --help` 